Understanding SMTP - Simple Mail Transfer Protocol

What is SMTP?

SMTP stands for Simple Mail Transfer Protocol. It is used to handle the sending of emails. In order to support email services,
a protocol pair is required, comprising of SMTP and POP/IMAP. Together they allow the user to send outgoing email and retrieve
incoming mail, respectively.

The SMTP server performs 3 basic funcitons:
	It verifies who is sending the emails through the SMTP server
	It sends the outgoing emails
	If the email cannot be delivered, it sends a message back to the sender.

Most people (not me) will have encountered SMTP when configuring a new email address on some third party email clients such as
Thunderbird; when you configure a new email client, you will need to configure the SMTP server configuration in order to send
outgoing emails.

POP and IMAP

POP (Post Office Protocol) and IMAP (Internet Message Access Protocol) are both email protocols concerned with the transfer of
email from an email server to the client. The difference being that POP is much more simplistic in that it downloads the inbox
to the client. Where IMAP synchronizes the current inbox with new mail on the server, downloading anything new. Also, changes
made to the inbox in a computer will persist as the change will be synchronized through IMAP.

How does SMTP work?

Email delivery is similar to physical mail. The user supplies the email (like a letter) and a service (like the postal service)
will deliver the email through a series of steps. The role of SMPT in this service is to act as a sorting office, the email is
picked up, sent to this server, which redirects it to the recipient.

	Client ------------> SMTP Server
				        -
					 -
					  -
					   -
					The Wider Internet
					   -
					  -
					 -
					-
	Recipient <--------------- POP/IMAP Server 

In Steps:
1. The mail agent (like your email client or external program), connects to the SMTP server of your domain, e.g. smtp.google.com
which initiates the SMTP Handshake. This connection works over the SMTP port which is usually 25. Once the connections has been 
validated, the SMTP session starts.

2. The process of sending mail can now begin. The client first submits the sender and recipient's email addresses, and the
body and attachments of the email to the server.

3. The SMTP server then checks whether the domain name of the sender and recipient are the same.

4. The SMPT server of the sender will make a connection to the SMTP server of the recipient before relaying the email. If the
recipient's server cannot be accessed or is not available, the email will be put into a SMTP queue. 

5. The recipient's SMTP server will verify the incoming email. It does this by checking if the domain name and username have been
recognized. The server will then send the email to POP or IMAP server. 

6. The email shows up in the recipient's inbox. 

NOTE: in step 2, if the sender and recipient domains are the same, the email goes directly to the recipient's POP or IMAP server.
Otherwise, the SMTP server has to communicate with a DNS server for the IP address of the recipient. 

NOTE: in step 5, the recipient SMTP server checks through DNS, checks also for a valid destination address, and even the email content.
