Linux Fundamentals 2

Accessing Your Linux Machine Using SSH (Deploy)

SSH (secure shell) is the common protocol for connecting and interacting with
the command line of a remote Linux Machine.

SSH is encrypted, so any command or data sent over a network is encrypted.

In this room we logged into a remote Linux machine over SSH. IP: 10.10.70.162
SSH is simply to use, we need to provide the IP address of the machine and a
set of correct credentials.
For this room, we will be logging in as "tryhackme", whose password is "tryhackme"

The ssh syntax is as follows "ssh username@ipaddress" then we are asked if
we trust the host and to input the password. 

Introduction to Flags and Switches

Commands perform their default behavior unless we tell them otherwise using
flags and switches.

File System Interactions Continued

Command	Full Name	Purpose
touch	touch	Create file
mkdir	make directory	Create a folder
cp	copy		Copy a file or folder
mv	move		Move a file or folder
rm	remove		Remove a file or folder (use -R to remove directories)
file	file		Determine the type of a file

Permissions 101

We can us ls -l in oder to list files along with extra information, the 1st of
wich is permissions. A file or folder can have a set of characteristics that
determine what actions can be performed with it and what user or group of users
can perform them. 

The command su <username> is used to switch users. If you add the -l switch, you
will inherit the system variables of the new user you are logging in as, for
example, the shell will start at the new user's home directory.

Common Directories

/etc

This folder is very important as it contains files used by the OS and programs.
For example it contains the sudoers file which list user permissions. Contains
the passwords for each user encrypted in format sha512

/var

Short for variable data, contains files that not necessarily user specific such
as log files from the services running on the machine.

/root

This is the home folder for the root user as he does not have a /home/root/ folder
as a regular user would.

/tmp

Is used to store data that only needs to be access a few times, once the computer
restarts, the files are removed, hence the name temporary. 
It is worth noting as penetration testers that every user has access to tmp/ by
default, meaning that when we gain access to a machine, we can store emuration
scripts here.


