Understanding NFS

NFS stands for Network File Systems and allows a system to share files and directories over a network. By using NFS user and programs can access
these files almost as if they were local files. It does this by mounting all, or a portion of a file system on a server. The portion of the file
system that is mounted can be accessed by clients according to the privileges assigned to each file.

How does NSF work?

We don't need to understand exactly how NFS works in order to exploit it effectively, but if that's something you want to do you can read:
https://docs.oracle.com/cd/E19683-01/816-4882/6mb2ipq7l/index.html

First, the client will request to mount a directory from the remote host on a local directory. Just the same way it can mount a physical device.
The mount service will then work to connect to the relevant mount daemon using RPC (Remote Procedure Call).

Then the server checks if the user has the privileges to mount whatever directory or file was requested. The server then returns a file handle
that uniquely identifies every directory and file that is on the server.

If someone wants to access a file using NFS a RPC call is placed to NFSD (Network File System Daemon). The call contains parameters such as:
	The file handle
	The name of the file to be accessed
	The user's user id
	The user's group id

These are used in determining access rights to the specified file.

What runs NFS?

Using NFS you can share files between Windows machines and other non-Windows systems, i.e. Mac, Linux, Unix. A computer running Windows server can
act as a NFS server for non-Windows computers, likewise, NFS allows Windows-based machines to access files in NFS servers hosted by non-Windows
computers.

Implementation and Technical details for NFS resources:
https://www.datto.com/library/what-is-nfs-file-share
http://nfs.sourceforge.net/
https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/NFS

Enumerating NFS

Requirements

In order to perform more advanced enumeration of NFS servers, we need a few tools one of which is key: nfs-common. This is usually installed in
most security OSs like Kali. You can install it with:
	>>> sudo apt install nfs-common

It is important that we have this package installed as it contains tools such as: lockd, statd, showmount,nfsstat, gssd, idmapd, and mount.nfs
Primarily, we are concerned with "showmount" and "mount.nfs" as we will need these in order to extract the most information from NFS shares. If
you want more info on nfs-common you can read https://packages.ubuntu.com/jammy/nfs-common


