Introductory Networking
	The OSI Model
	The TCP/IP Model
	How these models look in practice
	Basic Networking Tools introduction

The Open Systems Interconnection Model/OSI model

The OSI model is an standarized model which we use to demonstrate the theory
behind networking. In reality the TCP/IP model is used for networking, however,
the OSI model is easier to get an initial understanding.

7 Layers of the OSI model:
	Application
	Presentation
	Session
	Transport
	Network
	Data Link
	Physical

7. Application: this layer essentially provides networking options to programs
running on a computer through an interface for them to use in order to transmit 
data. When data passes through the application layer, it goes into the presentation
layer.

The application layer is not an application, instead it is a component withing
an application that control the communication method to other devices.

6. Presentation: Receives data from the application layer. Standarized the data
so that the receiving device is capable of understanding it. This layer formats
data into an standard format, handles any encryption, compression, or other
transformations necessary. Once done, data passes to the session layer. 

5. Session: Once data has been formatted and passed down to the session layer,
the session layer looks to see if it can set up a session with another computer
across the network, if it can't, then it returns an error and the process stops.
If it can, the session is established, and maintained by this layer. The session
layer works with the session layer of the receiving computer in order to synchronize
communications. The session layer is important because this session is unique
to the communication in question, this is how you can have two YouTube videos
playing at once in different tabs. When the session is properly established data
passes down to the transport layer.

4. Transport: This layer has several functions but one of the most important is to 
select over which protocol data is to be transmitted. The two most common protocols
are TCP and UDP. Transmission control protocol is connection based meaning that a
connection between the two computers is established and maintained for the duration
of the request. This allows for reliable transmission as the connection can be used
to check that all packets get to the right place. TCP connection allows the two computers
to remain in constant communication to ensure data is sent at an acceptable speed
and that any lost data is resent. User datagram protocol doesn't have the checks that
TCP has, it "throws" the packets at the receiving computer and the state of the
connection is ignored, there are no consequences for lost data exept for the user
experience. TCP is used in which reliability is important ex. file transfer, and UDP
is used where speed matters most ex. video streaming where if a few packets get lost
the only consequence is pixelated frames.

With the protocol selected, the network layer divides the data into bite-sized pieces
called segments in TCP and datagrams in UDP.

3. Network: The network layer is in charge of locating the destination of your request.
The internet is a huge network, when you request a website, the network layer takes
the IP address of the page and figures out the best route. At this stage we are still
working with Logical addressing, that is IP addresses, which are software controlled.
IP addresses provide order to networks, categorizing them and allowing us to sort them.
Currently the most popular format is IPv4 which is the common IP address format ex.
192.168.1.1

2. Data Link: Focuses on the physical addressing of the transmission. This layer receives 
a packet from the network layer that contains the IP address of the remote computer and 
adds the Media Access Control address which is the physical address of the Network Interface
Card in every computer that is network enabled. The MAC address is used to identify the
NIC, they are set by the manufacturer and cannot be changed, but can be spoofed. When
information is sent over the network it's the physical address that is used to identify
where exactly to send it.

It is also the job of the Data link layer to present data in a suitable format for trans-
mission.
Also, it checks whether data has been corrupted during transmission. Data is transmitted
by layer 1, the Physical layer.

1. Physical Layer: This is the hardware of the computer. The binary data is converted into
electrical pulses sent over a network. And also convert the electrical signals received
back into binary data for interpretation.
