The TCP/IP Protocol

The TCP/IP protocol is similar to the OSI model in many ways. It's older and serves as the
basis for real-world networking. This model has 4 layers which together cover the functionality
of the 7 layers of the OSI model.

	4. Application
	3. Transport
	2. Internet
	1. Network Interface

NOTE: Some sources list the TCP/IP model has having 5 layers, splitting network interface
into Data Link and and Physical layers as with the OSI model; this is well known, however,
not official. It is up to you to choose which version to use.

The TCP/IP model maps the OSI model more or less like this:
	4. Application: Application, Presentation, Session

        3. Transport: Transport

        2. Internet: Network

        1. Network Interface: Data Link, Physical

The processes of encapsulation and de-encapsulation work in the same way as in the OSI model.
With each layer headers are added or removed.

***The Practical Side of Things...

When we talk about TCP/IP model, what we are actually talking about is a set of rules that
defines how an action is to be carried out, that is protocols. The TCP/IP model takes its
name from the two most important protocols that (among others) make up the TCP/IP suite:
Transmission Control Protocol (controls the flow of data between two endpoints) and Internet
Protocol (controls the addressing of packages)

Let's explore TCP a bit, since it is a connection based protocol it must first establish a
connection via process knows as the 3 Way Handshake:

1. The client sends the SYN (synchronize) request to the server
2. The server responds with a SYN packet of its own and an ACK (acknowledgement) packet
3. The client sends a single ACK packet establishing the connection

After the 3 Way Handshake has been completed data can begin transmission, any data lost or
corrupted is resent, creating a connection which appears to be lossless.

NOTE: there is more than this to TCP, just know for now that a 3 Way Handshake must occur before
data is sent over TCP.

History: The DoD introduced the TCP/IP model in order to standarize networking in 1982 because
before this, systems made by different manufacturers were completely incompatible. The OSI
model was introduced by the International Organization for Standarization ISO, however, it
is used mostly as a comprehensive guide for studying as TCP/IP is still used for modern
networking.
