The OSI Model

The Open Systems Interconnection model is an absolute fundamental model used in
networking. This model provides the framework that dictates how every device
send, received, and interprets data.

One of the main advantages of the OSI model is that devices can have different
functions and designs on a network while communicating with other devices. Data
sent across a network that follows the uniformity of the OSI model can be
understood by other devices.

The OSI model consists of 7 layer through which data travels, processes take
place, and information is added to this data in a process called encapsulation.

Let's take a look at each layer.

7. Application

The highest layer is the one we are most familiar with because it includes things
like browsers, email clients, file managers, etc. basically in this layer we find
rules put in place that dictate how the user interacts with the data being received.
An example of a protocol that runs on the Application layer is the Domain Name
System (DNS).

6. Presentation

The sixth later of the OSI model acts as the translator for data coming to and
from the Application layer. This layer makes sure that data is standarized, for
example when using different email clients between two computers, the email
contents are still displayed. Additionally, security features such as HTTPS
encryption occur in this layer.

5. Session

Once data has been formated in the Presentation layer (6), then layer 5 Session
begins to create a connection between the two devices involved before the data is
sent, after all the checks are done and the connection is established, this is
known as the session, data is split up in small packets that are then sent one at
a time. This is beneficial because if the connection is lost only the unsent packets
need to be sent. So long as the connection exists, the session exists, sessions
are unique and data can only travel across one session.

4. Transport

In the transport layer data is sent across a network following one of two protocols:
Transmission Control Protocol (TCP) or User Datagram Protocol (UDP):

TCP has check to make sure that the connection is stable and all data packets are
received for data integrity. However, this requires a much stronger connection
and can cause a device to become bottle necked since the connection is reserved
until all data has been transmitted. If a small chunck of data is lost the big
chunck is rendered useless. This protocol is used for file sharing, emails, etc.
services in which file integrity is important

UDP lacks any of these controls and does not check for data integrity. Therefore
it is faster but data integrity is not guaranteed if a connection is weak. UDP
allows Layer 7 to decide how long packets will take to be transmitted, for example
quality on video streaming. Like in the previous example, UDP is often used for
things like video streaming in which if data is lost then the result is just a
few pixelated frames.

3. Network

This is where routing and reassembly occurs. Routing determines the most optimal
path for data packets to take. Protocols take place at this layer of the OSI
model that determine the path that data should take:

Open Shortest Path First (OSPF) and Routing Information Protocol (RIP), the factors
that decide which path is taken include the following:

What path is the shortest? That is, least amount of devices that the packet needs
to travel through.
What path is most reliable? That is, has data been lost in this path before.
Which path has the faster physical connection? For example copper cable compared
to much faster optic fiber.

2. Data Link

The data link layer focuses on the physical addressing of the transmission, the
data link layer receives packets from the network layer and adds in the physical
address  MAC of the destination. This MAC address belongs to the Network
Interface Card of the destination system and is set by the manufacturer, it
cannot be changed, but can be spoofed.
It is also the responsability of the Data Link layer to present the data in a
format suitable for transmission.

1. Physical

This layer is simply the physical layer, that is cables and the such, hardware.
Devices use electrical signals to transfer data between each other in binary.



























