In this file we talk about some of the security measures Windows implemets.

Windows Update

Windows update is found in Settings, it can also be opened with control /name Microsoft.WindowsUpdate

Updates are typically rolled out the second Tuesday of each month (expect for critical updates) on what's
called Patch Tuesday. Starting on Windows 10, updates are required and while they can be delayed, they will
take place alongside the required reboot.

Windows Security

Available in Setting. Per Microsoft: Windows Security is your home to manage tools that protect your device
and your data.

There are 4 protection areas:
	Virus & threat protection
	Firewall & network protection
	App & browser control
	Device Security

The aforementioned areas have status icons to indicate if your attention is needed:
	Green: your attention is not needed
	Yellow: means that there are safety recommendations for you to see
	Red: your immediate attention is needed

Virus & threat protection

Virus & threat protection is divided in two parts:
	Current threats:
		Scan Options:
			Quick Scan: scans the folders in the system where threats are usually found
			Full Scan: Checks all files and running programs on the hard drive. This can take very long.
			Custom Scan: Choose which files and locations you want to check.
		Threat History:
			Last Scan: Windows Defender Antivirus scan your computer automatically to keep it safe.
			Quarantined Threats: Threats have been isolated and prevented from running on the device.
			They will be removed periodically.
			Allowed Threats: Allowed threats are items identified as threats which you have allowed to run
			on your device. Only do this if you are 100 percent sure of what you are doing.

	Virus & threat protection settings:
		Here you can find a plethora of settings such as real-time protection, cloud delivered protection,
		notifications, etc...

Firewall & network protection

Firewall provides three profile: Domain, Private, and Public
	Domain Network: This profile applies to networks where the host system can authenticate to a domain controller
	Private Network: This profile is a user-assigned profile and is used to designate private networks or home networks
	Public Network: This profile is the default profile, used to designate public networks such as wifi hotspots at
	airports or coffee shops.

When you click on any of the firewall profiles you will see two options: turn on/off and Block all incoming
connections. It is recommended to leave your firewall enabled.

You can allow apps to have access to the network in the public/private profiles in the settings.
To open the advanced settings for the firewall go in Control Panel or use the command 'WF.msc'

Refer to the WF.msc documentation here:
https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/security/threat-protection/windows-firewall/best-practices-configuring

App & browser control

In App and Browser control you can change settings that protect against phishing and dangerous files and websites.
Divided in two main sections:

	Check apps and files: protects your device by checking unrecognized apps and files from the web.

	Exploit protection: This is built in to Windows and its default settings work for most people. Here you can find
	settings such as Control Flow Guard, Data Execution Prevention, and others.

Unless you are familiar with these settings it is best not to change them.

Device Security

Contains settings involving core isolation, high security processes, and details of the Trusted platform module (TPM).

	Core Isolation: Virtualization-based security measures that protect core parts of your device.
		Memory Integrity: prevents attacks from inserting code into high security processes.
	
	Security Processor: called the Trusted Platform Module is a cryptoprocessor that adds a physical layer of encryption to the device by
	performing cryptographic tasks and anti-tampering features.

Bitlocker

Bitlocker Drive Encryption is a data protection feature that addresses the concern of data loss or theft from stolen, lost, or inappropiately 
decommissioned computers. It is integrated with Windows.

Bitlocker Drive Encryption works best with computers with a Trusted Module Platform version 1.2 or newer installed. They work together
to provide protection of data and ensure tampering did not occur while the system was offline.

More on Bitlocker:
https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/security/information-protection/bitlocker/bitlocker-overview

Volume Shadow Copies

These simply are restore points that can be created from advanced system settings if system protection is on. These files allow you to revert
to a snapshot of the system from a previous point in time if something were to go wrong.
