System Configuration/Msconfig.ext

For more info check: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/troubleshoot/windows-client/performance/system-configuration-utility-troubleshoot-configuration-errors

Launch System Configuration by searching 'Msconfig' in the start menu. You will need local
administrator privileges

System configuration is used for advance troubleshooting and its main purpose is to help
diagnose start up issues.

It is composed of 5 tabs across the top:

General

In General we can choose what devices and services Windows will load on boot.
We have three options: NORMAL, DIAGNOSTIC, and SELECTIVE

Boot

In Boot we can choose various options for the operating system such as: No GUI Boot,
and we can see the drive and folder we boot from.

Services

In Services we can see all the services configured for the system regardless of status
(running or stopped). We can see their status as well here.

Startup

In the Startup tab you will be asked to use Task Manager to manage start up items.
(Start up items are those programs users install such as Steam or Spotify that start on boot.
This can be enabled and disabled from Task Manager(taskmgr). System Configuration is not a Startup
Manager.

Tools

The Tools tab lists many tools that can be used to further configure the system. You will
be provided a small description of what the tool does. There is also a box that shows the
path to the tool and the option to Launch it allowing you to open the tool from Msconfig.

Computer Management/compmgmt.msc

The Computer Management tool (compmgmt.msc) is comprised of three sections:

1. System Tools
	Task Scheduler: We can create common tasks that will be automatically carried out by
	the computer at the schedule time. This can be an application or script that can run
	at any time (as scheduled).

	Event Viewer: allows us to view the events that have occured on a system. These records
	of events can be viewed as an audit trail and can be use to monitor the activity of a
	system.
	Event Viewer is comprised of three panes: The leftmost pane shows the types of logs we can
	access. The middle pane will show a general overview of the log provider accessed chosen
	from the leftmost pane. The right pane is the Actions menu.
	NOTE: The standard logs are visible under Windows Logs.

	Shared Folders: Here you can see a complete list of shares and shared folders that others
	can connect to. Under Shares are the default remote admin, C$, and Windows share. Under
	Session you can see the users connected to the Shares. Finally, all of the files that
	connected users access will be listed under Open Files.

	Performance Monitor (perfmon.exe): This tool allows us to view performance data from a
	log file or live. This is useful to troubleshoot performance issues in a computer, either
	local or remote.

	Device Manger: is used to configure any devices that are attached to the computer, like
	disabling hardware attached to your machine.

2. Storage: Storage is where you can find Windows Server back up and Disk Management.
	In Disk Management, you can perform advanced configuration on drives such as: set up a new
	drive, create a partition and extend it, shrink a partition, assign or change drive letter.

3. Services and Applications: Here you can also see services and do more than just enable or disable
	them, you can view their properties as well. Another tool here is WMI Control which allows
	scripting languages to manage Windows personal computers or servers locally and remotely.
	WMIC is its command line interphase which is DEPRECATED.

System Information/msinfo32

System information/msinfo32 is a tool which provides comprehensive information of the system,
including software environment, system components, and hardware.

System summary (displays general technical info about the computer)is composed of three sections:
	Hardware Resources
	Components
	Software Environment

	Hardware Resources: The information presented here is advanced and not for the average user.
	https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows-hardware/drivers/kernel/hardware-resources

	Components: Components display information about the components and  is organized in several
	categories such as multimedia and netword.

	Software Environment: Here you can find information about software included in the OS and installed
	software. You can also find here environment variables and network connections. 
		
		Environment variables contain info such as the location of the Windows folder and how
		many processor the OS can use. These are important as software uses them to access
		resources.
	
		Two other methods to view $ENV are:
		Control Panel > System and Security > System > Advanced system settings > Environment Variables
		
		Settings > System > About > system info > Advanced system settings > Environment Variables
	
	Back to msinfo32. There is a search bar near the bottom of this tool, use it to find components.

Resource Monitor/resmon

Resource Monitor is a tool that allows you to see per process and aggregate data of CPU, memory, disk, and network usage
information as well as providing details of which files are being used by processes and applications. Advance filtering
allows of the isolation of data and visualization of conflicts, users can start, stop, pause, and resume services in
order to attemp to resolve conflicts. 

The Overview section of the app includes: CPU, Memory, Disk, and Network. All of which have their individual tabs.

Command Prompt/cmd

The command line was the only way that users interacted with computers back in the origins of computing. The command
line still remains a very useful tool however and much can be accomplished from it.

Here we will explore a few commands that can tell us some information about the windows system.

	hostname: outputs the computer name

	whoami: shows the username of the logged in user

	ipconfig: displays the network configuration of the computer

	'/?': when used as a suffix returns the man page of a command for example 'ipconfig /?'

	cls: clears the terminal

	netstat: displays the current TCP/IP connections and their status.

	net: This command is used for network configuration. '/?' does not work for this command, you would use its
	subscommand 'help'. In order to see the help page for net subcommands use net help <subcommand> example:
	net help user

Registry Editor/regedt32

The Windows Registry is a central hierarchical database used to store information necessary to configure the system
for one or more users, applications, and hardware devices. The Registry contains information that Windows continually
references during operation such as:

Profiles for each user
Applications installed on the computer and the types of documents that each can create
Property sheet settings for folders and application icons
What hardware exists on the system
The ports being used

The Registry Editor is considered to be for advanced users as editing settings here can affect the functioning of the
computer.

Documentation on the editor:
https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/troubleshoot/windows-server/performance/windows-registry-advanced-users

