Windows Fundamentals Part 1

Windows has a long history starting in 1985 all the way to the present day, some notable versions
are Windows XP, Vista, Windows 7, Windows 8, Windows 10, and presently 11.

Windows is the leading OS in the market prompting it to be the main target of hacker and others.
There is also a Windows Server version.

The Windows File System

The file system used in new versions of windows is called the New Technology File System, NTFS,
older versions of the OS used FAT16/32 which stands for File Allocation Table, or also High Performance
File System, HPFS.

NTFS is knows as a journaling file system which means it is capable of restoring folders and files from
a log file, this function is not possible with FAT. NTFS addresses limitation of FAT:

Supports files larger than 4GB
Set specific permissions for files and folders
Folder and file compression
Encryption (Encryption File System of EFS)

In NTFS you can set permissions that grant or deny access to folders and files
The permissions are:

Full control
Modify
Read & Execute
List folder contents
Read
Write

How can you view the permissions for a file or folder?

Right-click the file or folder you want to check for permissions.
From the context menu, select Properties.
Within Properties, click on the Security tab.
In the Group or user names list, select the user, computer, or group whose permissions you want to view.

You can refer to Microsoft Documentation to get a better understanding of the NTFS permissions and Special
Permissions

Another feature of NTFS is Alternate Data Stream ADS, every file has at least one data stream and ADS allows
files to contain more than one data stream. Natively Windows explorer doesn't show ADS to the user but there
are third party executables that can be used to view these. Powershell allows you to view ADS for files.
From a security perspective malware writers have used ADS in order to hide data from the users, not all the
uses of ADS are malicious as there are identifiers written to ADS that detect when a file was downloaded from
the Internet for example. To learn more about ADS refer to https://blog.malwarebytes.com/101/2015/07/introduction-to-alternate-data-streams/

The Windows\System32 Folders

The Windows folder is traditionally located at C:\Windows, and contains the operating system. This folder does
not have to reside here, it could be located within any folder and not necessarily in the C drive.

This is where environment variables come into play, environment variables store information about th environmet
about the operating system environment. Information such as operating system path, number of processors used
by the operating system, and the location of temporary folders.

The environment variable for the Windows Directory is %windir%

There are many folders within C:\Windows, one of the most important ones is System32 which contains many files
required for OS functioning and therefore you should be careful when interacting with this folder.

User Accounts, Profiles, and Permissions

User accounts fall into two categories in Windows systems: Administrator and Standard User.

The user account type will determine what actions can that user perform on that specific Windows System.
An administrator can make changes to the system such as adding and deleting users and groups while a local
user can only perform changes to folders and files attributed to the user and can't perform system level
changes.

There are several ways to determine which user accounts exist on a system, one way is to type 'Other users'
in the start menu. A Window should open and the other users should be visible, if you are the administrator
you can see the option add someone else to this PC or upon clicking on a user the options to change account
type or remove the user. The option highlighted in account type is the type of user that user is.

When users are created the location for their profiles will fall under C:\Users. For example C:\Users\John
The creation of the user's profile is completed upon their first login to the system, several messages will
be seen on the screen about User Profile Services and Personalized settings. Each user has a set of folders
that are the same: Desktop, Documents, Downloads, Music, Pictures...

Another way to access this information and more is using Local User and Group Management:
	Right click on the start menu and click Run
	Then type the lusrmgr.msc
Now you should see two folders: Users and Groups. If you click on Groups you can see the names of the local
groups alongside with a description for each group. Each Group has a set of permissions to it that Users in
said Group inherit. A user can be assigned to several groups.

User Account Control


