HTTP in Detail

URL: Uniform Resource Locator

http://user:password@tryhackme.com:80/view-room?id=1#task3

Scheme: This instructs on what protocol to use for accessing the resource such as HTTP, HTTPS, FTP (File Transfer Protocol).

User: Some services require authentication to log in, you can put a username and password into the URL to log in.

Host: The domain name or IP address of the server you wish to access.

Port: The Port that you are going to connect to, usually 80 for HTTP and 443 for HTTPS, but this can be hosted on any port between 1 - 65535.

Path: The file name or location of the resource you are trying to access.

Query String: Extra bits of information that can be sent to the requested path. For example, /blog?id=1 would tell the blog path that you wish to receive the blog article with the id of 1.

Fragment: This is a reference to a location on the actual page requested. This is commonly used for pages with long content and can have a certain part of the page directly linked to it, so it is viewable to the user as soon as they access the page. 

HTTP Methods
There are a lot of http methods, here are some, although we'll deal with GET and POST the most:

GET Request

This is used for getting information from a web server.

POST Request

This is used for submitting data to the web server and potentially creating new records

PUT Request

This is used for submitting data to a web server to update information

DELETE Request

This is used for deleting information/records from a web server.

HTTP Status Codes
The first line that a server sends a client after a GET request, always has a status code that lets the client
know the status of their request and how to handle it. Status codes can be split into five ranges:

100-199: Information Response
200-299: Success
300-399: Redirection
400-499: Client Errors
500-599: Server Errors

Common HTTP Status Codes
There are many http status codes and applications can also define their own, here are some of the most common ones:

200 - OK	The request was completed successfully.
201 - Created	A resource has been created (for example a new user or new blog post).
301 - Permanent Redirect	This redirects the client's browser to a new webpage or tells search engines that the page has moved somewhere else and to look there instead.
302 - Temporary Redirect	Similar to the above permanent redirect, but as the name suggests, this is only a temporary change and it may change again in the near future.
400 - Bad Request	This tells the browser that something was either wrong or missing in their request. This could sometimes be used if the web server resource that is being requested expected a certain parameter that the client didn't send.
401 - Not Authorised	You are not currently allowed to view this resource until you have authorised with the web application, most commonly with a username and password.
403 - Forbidden	You do not have permission to view this resource whether you are logged in or not.
405 - Method Not Allowed	The resource does not allow this method request, for example, you send a GET request to the resource /create-account when it was expecting a POST request instead.
404 - Page Not Found	The page/resource you requested does not exist.
500 - Internal Service Error	The server has encountered some kind of error with your request that it doesn't know how to handle properly.
503 - Service Unavailable	This server cannot handle your request as it's either overloaded or down for maintenance.

